Dear esteemed Dharma friends, some people are
afraid to take refuge in the Three
Jewels because they fear violating precepts,
committing a
great sin, and therefore they choose not to take refuge in the
Three Jewels to avoid sin.
However,
this is completely wrong. If you take refuge in the
Three Jewels and commit a sin, the sin will be
smaller than for someone who hasn't taken refuge.
Today, we will discuss the sutra: "
Small good deeds bring great blessings, great evil deeds bring
small karmic retribution." How is
this possible? If we take refuge in the Three Jewels and commit a
great evil, the karmic retribution will be smaller, while if
we do a small good deed, the karmic reward will be
greater. Doesn't that sound contradictory?
That's why we need the wisdom of
an Arhat. If we lack the wisdom of others, we will
never
accept this. To clarify this
and help us
improve, we should listen to the
teachings of the Arhat. I respectfully request that you, esteemed Dharma friends, listen to this.
We will recite the Buddha's name to
pray for blessings, then Yen will read the sutra and...
so that we can all practice the Dharma and
understand it.
Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni,
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Respectfully,
dear fellow practitioners, Yen will read the
sutra. The king asked if there was any case
where a person who committed a great evil deed received a
small karmic retribution, while a person who did a small good deed received a great karmic
reward. The
venerable monk replied, "Yes, and that
often
happens." The king asked, "Isn't that contrary to the law of
karma?" The law of karma says that if you sow a small sesame seed, you
get a small sesame seed; if you sow a large pumpkin seed, you
get a large pumpkin.
Na Tien asked, "That's true, but
if the sesame seed
had plenty of fertilizer, water, weeds, and the
plants were densely packed, wouldn't the seed be a little bigger?" The
king replied, "That's true." Na Tien then asked, "What about a
large pumpkin seed sown in dry, rocky soil
without fertilizer or water? Without care, the
pumpkin would surely be tiny like a small
eggplant." The king replied, "That's true." Na Tien
said, "It's the same; sowing the seed but
also providing favorable conditions."  Adverse circumstances
or obstacles contribute to the cause, which
determines the effect. A person who
does evil but constantly repents day and night,
always feeling uneasy and restless,
vows from now on not to do
evil again. It is precisely because of this person's repentant heart that
the karmic consequences of their sins will be
lessened. That is the case where a
great evil deed results in a
small karmic consequence. Conversely, a person who does
small good deeds but feels joyful and
content, experiencing peace and tranquility day and night
with those few good deeds, will
surely receive great blessings.
Your Majesty, we see that the Venerable Arhat
is truly wise. The
praise is superfluous, because an Arhat
must possess extraordinary wisdom.
However, our minds are
still worldly, so when we see something, we
feel it's something unimaginable, and
therefore we always
utter words of praise, right?
We never thought
we could think like that, or
that we could analyze it like that. Even so, we
have our own feelings.  I feel
so happy, so joyful, and each
emotion makes me more diligent. For example, when
I think about the Buddha, how he seems to
know everything! There's nothing I don't know. If I
ask him, he knows everything about the three thousand great worlds. Even if
a fish were to wag its tail in the ocean
and I asked the Buddha what cause it to do that,
and what phenomenon would occur in the world because of that fish wagging its tail, the
Buddha could answer.
But we are completely clueless; when we see a fish
wagging its tail, we only know it's beautiful or ugly, and that's it.
That's frustrating! That's why I
see the Buddha's extraordinary wisdom, so I
'm determined.
No matter what, I must cultivate to become a
Buddha. I cannot hesitate,
I cannot exchange anything for anything, for the opportunity to cultivate to become a
Buddha. Because with such wisdom,
why wouldn't I be able to become a Buddha? Is
n't that joyful? It's that
joy that makes me let go of and discard
everything I'm attached to, everything I
feel is too small, too insignificant, too
unworthy of me.  I don't
like that. I have to like that other thing. If you're
going to pray, you have to pray for that other thing. Even
for the general public to hear, when I was little, the whole
neighborhood, from the oldest to the youngest, would play together in the evenings,
sitting next to each other, and telling stories.
Each person had to tell a story,
this story or
that story. Yen is very grateful to this guy, you
call him a mischievous guy, but that
mischievousness gave Yen a lesson from
childhood, that each person had to tell a
very long story. And he would sit
there and tell stories about the old days, about the
old days, about the old days. It was so long ago.
You were so stubborn, turning around and around.
You kept telling stories about the old days, about the old days, about
the old days. This story is so far removed from the old days, about the
old days. Then there
was a woman who said, "I
wish you would stop that
story." The person telling the
story about the old days said, "I
wish for something, but I wish for a lot of it."
And then there was the
person next to her who said, "I wish for a
lump of something."  That guy said, "If you wish for a
lump of gold, then
wish for a whole mountain of gold."
It means always directing
your mind upwards, of course, towards
Buddhism, which is called worldly greed. But that's what I
gave to Yen when she was
sitting and chatting. Yen just said, "Why
wish for something
bigger? Why not do something better? Why not
do something better? Why only
think about small things?"
From then on, Yen took that saying and strived
in everything she did to
achieve the best possible outcome,
never using the phrase "
That's enough." Of course,
Yen
never applied that phrase to
greed, but to
morality because Yen loves morality very much.
Therefore, if she wants something,
she will want the best,
she will strive to become
it, and that will come to her.  By the
time I met the Buddha, I had already been cultivating it since childhood.
When I met the Buddha and heard about
his wisdom, I wished for that, and nothing else
besides that. Dear fellow
practitioners, that wish is what makes
me free from all
worldly desires. Being free
from all worldly attachments
means being free, not being tainted, and
easily letting go. That is what
I always do to fulfill
that good deed. Here, the Venerable La Tien
spoke of a small good deed that, when done
fully, will yield
great rewards. I thought, "That's
right, a good deed is one where
I feel the Buddha's wisdom, and
I am always happy and
joyful. Surely, the blessings that come to
me will be great. What does 'great' mean? It means
I will diligently walk
this path. Isn't that a blessing?
Now, let's return to the part of the sutra on karmic retribution.
Here, the Venerable La Tien also clearly
explains the karmic connection. Remember,
those who have committed sins should remember the karmic connection."  What
is the karmic connection? If one repents and
reflects on their actions daily, the karmic consequences will
lessen. To have that karmic connection, one
must have taken refuge in the precepts. Only then can
one examine the matter
within the precepts. For example, this person, today,
due to karmic obstacles, is excessively greedy and
cannot restrain themselves from inciting others to kill.
After
killing and eating, they will constantly repent,
thinking about the animal that
was living and how they took
its life. That very repentance will
reduce the karmic consequences. But
those who haven't taken refuge in the precepts don't know
anything
about violating the precepts or the karmic consequences. Therefore, they don't
repent or confess, so
their sin and karmic consequences
increase. Isn't that right? Because they don't
know, they will continue to do it again. But
those who do know, their past sins
have been reduced. Then they can
control their actions and
prevent the karmic consequences
that they would otherwise face.  For example,
in a previous life, perhaps we
had some kind of curse or
vengeful intention towards
someone, and when we meet again, it's because of
past mistakes and wrongdoings. That repentance and remorse
leads
to this encounter,
preventing us from creating further negative karma. This
reduces our sins in the present and
in the future, allowing
us to progress in our spiritual practice. This is very
beneficial for those who take refuge in the Three Jewels, uphold the precepts, and
constantly contemplate the precepts. These
two types of karma are different.
Therefore, a great Buddhist disciple, a
wise person, should take refuge in the Three Jewels and
regularly recite the precepts. This will greatly benefit them. It's
not that those who haven't
taken refuge in the Three Jewels and the Five Precepts commit sins;
their sins are less significant than those who have taken refuge in the
Five Precepts. So today, we
know that those who have taken refuge in the Five Precepts
will create favorable conditions. These
conditions arise from remembering the precepts, leading to
repentance and remorse, thus helping them to overcome their
sins. Therefore, in this Dharma...  The precepts are a matter of cause and effect. Taking refuge in the
Three Jewels and
receiving the precepts is the condition that allows us to
eliminate evil karma through the
merits that the precepts bring.
Furthermore, even a small good deed, if done with a joyful and contented
heart, brings peace and tranquility day after day, month
after month. The
resulting merit
is undoubtedly immense. Your Majesty, I
will ask you, esteemed fellow practitioners, to
apply this thinking. For example, if you are in the
cultural committee and you create a video
or do
something that conveys Buddhist teachings, you
should always think about your achievements. This will help the
readers and
listeners understand something, and
they will experience a feeling of joy
towards the Dharma.
This feeling of joy will benefit them. If
you live in that joy,
your merit will increase. If you are
joyful today and joyful tomorrow,
your merit will increase
many times over compared to a single good deed.  I do my work
because I am joyful about it. If
you are doing something beneficial,
you should think about how
this work will benefit sentient beings. Living
in that joyful state of mind—that is,
living with a mind dedicated to
saving sentient beings, a mind that transmits the
Dharma, a mind that saves sentient beings—then
you will receive blessings. And what about
people in all other fields? It's the same;
you should think about the
benefits your actions bring to sentient beings. With
each action you take, you should
think in this way, and your joyful mind will be
born, and that will generate
blessings for you. That's why
small good deeds bring great rewards. Therefore,
depending on the circumstances and
each task, we should
contemplate cause and effect, benefits, and
how happy we will be as someone who benefits from others. Then we will see
the benefits of our actions.
When we think in this way, it helps
us to reap the rewards.  First,
diligence is key. The first benefit is that it
makes you diligent, prevents you from feeling
tired.
This diligence motivates
you to gain more benefits and
do more beneficial things in your
work, to spread the Dharma and sow the seeds of the
Dharma to sentient beings. That
is the blessing that
Buddhists receive. We are people with
little karmic merit, so we must understand
this benefit. Only with the presence of the Venerable Master La Tien can
we be diligent.
Otherwise, we wouldn't think about our
achievements at all. We wouldn't
make our minds joyful and full,
so we would become bored, sitting around doing nothing. We'd be bored. We'd be bored because we couldn't think about the results. Do you understand this? Not
thinking about the results
is what makes us bored; thinking about the results
never makes us bored. Dear fellow
practitioners, I feel the same way. There are times when my body is
tired, and I reflect on
how tired I am. But when I think about what
people need, about their happiness,
then I feel better.  Because of diligence, I
cannot become weary, I cannot be
distracted, I cannot
abandon my work to indulge in pleasure or
do
unwholesome things. I cannot do that
because I have mastered the concept of
benefit. That is, I put myself in the position of the
person who benefits from my work,
how happy and peaceful they will be. That is
why I work diligently
and I do not become distracted or
do things outside of
my work. Because I have a joyful heart, and this joyful
heart will give me
very good energy for diligence. So,
I wish all the esteemed practitioners in the
Golden Cup Club practicing the Lộc Hòa practice that you all
understand how to make
your joyful heart abundant through
your work. Then we will gain the benefits
of diligence and receive
great blessings. From that benefit, we will
have a repentant heart when
we make mistakes because we often
think about the consequences of our actions.
We discover our
mistakes very quickly, and we quickly repent and
correct them. Those are two benefits
from thinking about
our own benefit. This has made us diligent in repentance and stopping negative karma, thus
transforming karma and increasing merit. Therefore,
Buddhists should rejoice in
their good deeds;
that is also mindfulness of the Dharma.
Yen continued reading the sutra. Let's see
what Venerable Na Tien taught next. The Venerable recounted
a specific case. Venerable Na
Tien replied, "Yes, when the Buddha was still alive, one
day he met a sinner whose
hands and feet had been cut off, holding a lotus flower in his mouth
as a respectful offering to him. After
receiving it, the Buddha turned to the monks and said
that thanks to this merit, for the next
91 lifetimes, the person with the amputated
limbs would not be reborn in the three lower
realms, but would be reborn in heaven to enjoy
all the blessings before being reborn as a human.
Therefore, the law of karma in
this world has many facets and is
not as simple as ordinary people understand it. Ordinary
people understand it as the ordinary person.
Understanding small good deeds brings great blessings, while
great evils bring small karmic retribution. Conversely, this is
also common. Your
Majesty, I understand. The king replied, "I
understand, but not completely." Na Tien
said, and the king smiled. "Perhaps that's
true," he continued. "Do you see?" Then,
this matter is
related to our charitable work. There's a
story about a
person with both legs and arms amputated who offered flowers
to the Buddha with a
respectful and selfless heart.
That person enjoyed happiness for 91 lifetimes.
But if one suffers and only
knows how to receive, of course, one
must receive. But how to receive? One
must cultivate wisdom to
reduce karma. Those who give
alms must have wisdom. Therefore, for safety,
we often have the opportunity to
go with monks to give
alms, or we must have sufficient wisdom and skillful
means to speak in a way that
allows people to turn their hearts towards the
Three Jewels, so they can be grateful to the Three Jewels and then
they can...  That brings
them blessings—just a single thought directed towards
the Buddha like this, and they've had 91 lifetimes already. So, if
we can introduce them to the
Three Jewels, to how to
cultivate a joyful heart,
their blessings will be immense.
In this article, I'll share with you, dear fellow
practitioners, the
immense benefits of taking refuge in the Three Jewels. When we take
refuge in the Three Jewels, we direct our hearts towards
them, we make offerings to them.
For example, if a Buddhist goes to the
alms-gathering ceremony today, we feel very
happy because the monks get to eat their fill. Because they are well-
fed, they can practice their
cultivation better, and that merit and blessings will be
brought to the world more, right?
So, there is joy, not joy.
But there is truly this joy.
Why do I often tell you, dear fellow
practitioners, that this dish isn't
delicious, this needs to be adjusted?
Because we can feel it when the
person eating receives that dish.  It's
delicious. It also makes one healthy,
so one's heart is joyful.
Therefore, we often contemplate the
joyful thought of the recipient to
complete our work better.
This also generates
merit for us;
when something happens, there will be corresponding help
coming to assist us. This is the karmic reward that
arises from doing good deeds. When we
think about
the benefits of doing good deeds,
we will benefit when we
encounter a problem that needs
solving; there will be corresponding help coming to
assist us in resolving
that problem. Our joy and happiness create
this karmic connection, dear fellow practitioners. So, I
wish you all diligence in
doing good deeds, then taking refuge in the Three Jewels, and contemplating the
Dharma, the merits of your actions, and your
achievements to increase your merit
and eliminate karmic obstacles so that we may
enjoy happiness and peace. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. I respectfully invite all fellow
practitioners...
This handwritten dedication of merit is
intended to be
directed towards all
disciples and sentient beings, that they may all
attain
Buddhahood. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
[Applause]
K
[music] [
Applause]
[music]